docs/ApacheArrowInstallation.md, before:

# llvm-7.0: 
Arrow Gandiva depends on LLVM, and I noticed current version strictly depends on llvm7.0 if you installed any other version rather than 7.0, it will fail.
``` shell
wget http://releases.llvm.org/7.0.1/llvm-7.0.1.src.tar.xz
tar xf llvm-7.0.1.src.tar.xz
cd llvm-7.0.1.src/
cd tools
wget http://releases.llvm.org/7.0.1/cfe-7.0.1.src.tar.xz
tar xf cfe-7.0.1.src.tar.xz
mv cfe-7.0.1.src clang
cd ..
mkdir build
cd build
cmake .. -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release
cmake --build . -j
cmake --build . --target install
# check if clang has also been compiled, if no
cd tools/clang
mkdir build
cd build
cmake ..
make -j
make install
```

# cmake: 
Arrow will download package during compiling, in order to support SSL in cmake, build cmake is optional.
``` shell
wget https://github.com/Kitware/CMake/releases/download/v3.15.0-rc4/cmake-3.15.0-rc4.tar.gz
tar xf cmake-3.15.0-rc4.tar.gz
cd cmake-3.15.0-rc4/
./bootstrap --system-curl --parallel=64 #parallel num depends on your server core number
make -j
make install
cmake --version
cmake version 3.15.0-rc4
```

# Apache Arrow
``` shell
git clone https://github.com/Intel-bigdata/arrow.git
cd arrow && git checkout branch-0.17.0-oap-1.0
mkdir -p arrow/cpp/release-build
cd arrow/cpp/release-build
cmake -DARROW_DEPENDENCY_SOURCE=BUNDLED -DARROW_GANDIVA_JAVA=ON -DARROW_GANDIVA=ON -DARROW_PARQUET=ON -DARROW_HDFS=ON -DARROW_BOOST_USE_SHARED=ON -DARROW_JNI=ON -DARROW_DATASET=ON -DARROW_WITH_PROTOBUF=ON -DARROW_WITH_SNAPPY=ON -DARROW_WITH_LZ4=ON -DARROW_FILESYSTEM=ON -DARROW_JSON=ON ..
make -j
make install

# build java
cd ../../java
# change property 'arrow.cpp.build.dir' to the relative path of cpp build dir in gandiva/pom.xml
mvn clean install -P arrow-jni -am -Darrow.cpp.build.dir=../cpp/release-build/release/ -DskipTests 
# if you are behine proxy, please also add proxy for socks
mvn clean install -P arrow-jni -am -Darrow.cpp.build.dir=../cpp/release-build/release/ -DskipTests -DsocksProxyHost=${proxyHost} -DsocksProxyPort=1080 
```

run test
``` shell
mvn test -pl adapter/parquet -P arrow-jni
mvn test -pl gandiva -P arrow-jni
```

# Copy binary files to oap-native-sql resources directory
Because oap-native-sql plugin will build a stand-alone jar file with arrow dependency, if you choose to build Arrow by yourself, you have to copy below files as a replacement from the original one.
You can find those files in Apache Arrow installation directory or release directory. Below example assume Apache Arrow has been installed on /usr/local/lib64
``` shell
cp /usr/local/lib64/libarrow.so.17 $native-sql-engine-dir/cpp/src/resources
cp /usr/local/lib64/libgandiva.so.17 $native-sql-engine-dir/cpp/src/resources
cp /usr/local/lib64/libparquet.so.17 $native-sql-engine-dir/cpp/src/resources
```

Commit message:

[NSE-283] Pick S3/CSV supports to OAP 1.1 (#284)
* [NSE-237] Add ARROW_CSV=ON to default C++ build commands (#238)

* [NSE-261] ArrowDataSource: Add S3 Support (#270)

Closes #261

* [NSE-276] Add option to switch Hadoop version

* [NSE-119] clean up on comments (#288)

Signed-off-by: Yuan Zhou <yuan.zhou@intel.com>

* [NSE-206]Update installation guide and configuration guide. (#289)

* [NSE-206]Update installation guide and configuration guide.

* Fix numaBinding setting issue. & Update description for protobuf

* [NSE-206]Fix Prerequisite and Arrow Installation Steps. (#290)

Co-authored-by: Yuan <yuan.zhou@intel.com>
Co-authored-by: Wei-Ting Chen <weiting.chen@intel.com>

docs/ApacheArrowInstallation.md, after:

# llvm-7.0: 
Arrow Gandiva depends on LLVM, and I noticed current version strictly depends on llvm7.0 if you installed any other version rather than 7.0, it will fail.
``` shell
wget http://releases.llvm.org/7.0.1/llvm-7.0.1.src.tar.xz
tar xf llvm-7.0.1.src.tar.xz
cd llvm-7.0.1.src/
cd tools
wget http://releases.llvm.org/7.0.1/cfe-7.0.1.src.tar.xz
tar xf cfe-7.0.1.src.tar.xz
mv cfe-7.0.1.src clang
cd ..
mkdir build
cd build
cmake .. -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release
cmake --build . -j
cmake --build . --target install
# check if clang has also been compiled, if no
cd tools/clang
mkdir build
cd build
cmake ..
make -j
make install
```

# cmake: 
Please make sure your cmake version is qualified based on the prerequisite.


# Apache Arrow
``` shell
git clone https://github.com/Intel-bigdata/arrow.git
cd arrow && git checkout <version>
mkdir -p arrow/cpp/release-build
cd arrow/cpp/release-build
cmake -DARROW_DEPENDENCY_SOURCE=BUNDLED -DARROW_GANDIVA_JAVA=ON -DARROW_GANDIVA=ON -DARROW_PARQUET=ON -DARROW_CSV=ON -DARROW_HDFS=ON -DARROW_BOOST_USE_SHARED=ON -DARROW_JNI=ON -DARROW_DATASET=ON -DARROW_WITH_PROTOBUF=ON -DARROW_WITH_SNAPPY=ON -DARROW_WITH_LZ4=ON -DARROW_FILESYSTEM=ON -DARROW_JSON=ON ..
make -j
make install

# build java
cd ../../java
# change property 'arrow.cpp.build.dir' to the relative path of cpp build dir in gandiva/pom.xml
mvn clean install -P arrow-jni -am -Darrow.cpp.build.dir=../cpp/release-build/release/ -DskipTests 
# if you are behine proxy, please also add proxy for socks
mvn clean install -P arrow-jni -am -Darrow.cpp.build.dir=../cpp/release-build/release/ -DskipTests -DsocksProxyHost=${proxyHost} -DsocksProxyPort=1080 
```

run test
``` shell
mvn test -pl adapter/parquet -P arrow-jni
mvn test -pl gandiva -P arrow-jni
```

After arrow installed in the specific directory, please make sure to set up -Dbuild_arrow=OFF -Darrow_root=/path/to/arrow when building Native SQL Engine.
