docs/Developer-Guide.md, before:

# OAP Developer Guide

* [OAP Building](#OAP-Building)
* [Integration with Spark](#integration-with-spark)
* [Enable Numa binding for DCPMM in Spark](#enable-numa-binding-for-dcpmm-in-spark)



## OAP Building

#### Building
OAP is built using [Apache Maven](http://maven.apache.org/).

To clone OAP project, use

```
git clone -b branch-0.6-spark-2.4.4  https://github.com/Intel-bigdata/OAP.git
cd OAP
```

To build OAP package, use

```
mvn clean -DskipTests package
```

#### Running Test

To run all the tests, use
```
mvn clean test
```
To run any specific test suite, for example `OapDDLSuite`, use
```
mvn -DwildcardSuites=org.apache.spark.sql.execution.datasources.oap.OapDDLSuite test
```
**NOTE**: Log level of OAP unit tests currently default to ERROR, please override src/test/resources/log4j.properties if needed.


#### OAP Building with DCPMM

If you want to use OAP with DCPMM,  you can follow the below building steps.

##### Prerequisites for building with DCPMM support

You  need to install the required packages on the build system listed below.

- gcc-c++
- [cmake](https://help.directadmin.com/item.php?id=494)
- [Memkind](https://github.com/memkind/memkind)


##### Building package
You need to add -Ppersistent-memory to the build command line for building with DCPMM support.
```
mvn clean -q -Ppersistent-memory -DskipTests package
```

## Integration with Spark

Although OAP acts as a plugin jar to Spark, there are still a few tricks to note when integration with Spark. Basically, OAP explored Spark extension & data source API to perform its core functionality. But there are other functionality aspects that cannot achieved by Spark extension and data source API. We made a few improvements or changes to the Spark internals to achieve the functionality. So when integrating OAP on Spark, you need to check whether you are running an unmodified Community Spark or a modified customized Spark.

#### Integrate with Community Spark

If you are running an Community Spark, things will be much simple. Refer to [OAP User Guide](OAP-User-Guide.md) to configure and setup Spark to working with OAP.

#### Integrate with customized Spark

It will be more complicated to integrate OAP with a customized Spark. Steps needed for this case is to check whether the OAP changes of Spark internals will conflict or override with your private changes. 
- If no conflicts or overrides happens, the steps are the same as the steps of unmodified version of Spark described above. 
- If conflicts or overrides happen, you need to have a merge plan of the source code to make sure the code changes you made in a Spark source file appears in the corresponding file included in OAP project. Once merged, you need to rebuild OAP.

The following files need to be checked/compared for changes:

```
•	antlr4/org/apache/spark/sql/catalyst/parser/SqlBase.g4  
		Add index related DDL in this file, such as "create/show/drop oindex". 
•	org/apache/spark/scheduler/DAGScheduler.scala           
		Add the oap cache location to aware task scheduling.
•	org/apache/spark/sql/execution/DataSourceScanExec.scala   
		Add the metrics info to OapMetricsManager and schedule the task to read from the cached hosts.
•	org/apache/spark/sql/execution/datasources/FileFormatWriter.scala
		Return the result of write task to driver.
•	org/apache/spark/sql/execution/datasources/OutputWriter.scala  
		Add new API to support return the result of write task to driver.
•	org/apache/spark/sql/hive/thriftserver/HiveThriftServer2.scala
		Add OapEnv.init() and OapEnv.stop
•	org/apache/spark/sql/hive/thriftserver/SparkSQLCLIDriver.scala
		Add OapEnv.init() and OapEnv.stop in SparkSQLCLIDriver
•	org/apache/spark/status/api/v1/OneApplicationResource.scala    
		Update the metric data to spark web UI.
•	org/apache/spark/SparkEnv.scala
		Add OapRuntime.stop() to stop OapRuntime instance.
•	org/apache/spark/sql/execution/datasources/parquet/VectorizedColumnReader.java
		Change the private access of variable to protected
•	org/apache/spark/sql/execution/datasources/parquet/VectorizedPlainValuesReader.java
		Change the private access of variable to protected
•	org/apache/spark/sql/execution/datasources/parquet/VectorizedRleValuesReader.java
		Change the private access of variable to protected
•	org/apache/spark/sql/execution/vectorized/OnHeapColumnVector.java
		Add the get and set method for the changed protected variable.
```

## Enable Numa binding for DCPMM in Spark

#### Rebuild Spark packages with Numa binding patch 

When using DCPMM as a cache medium, if you want to obtain optimum performance, you need to apply the [Numa](https://www.kernel.org/doc/html/v4.18/vm/numa.html) binding patch [Spark.2.4.4.numa.patch](./Spark.2.4.4.numa.patch) to Spark source code.

1. Download src for [Spark-2.4.4](https://archive.apache.org/dist/spark/spark-2.4.4/spark-2.4.4.tgz) and clone the src from github.

2. Apply this patch and [rebuild](https://spark.apache.org/docs/latest/building-spark.html) Spark package.

```
git apply  Spark.2.4.4.numa.patch
```

3. When deploying OAP to Spark, please add below configuration item to Spark configuration file $SPARK_HOME/conf/spark-defaults.conf to enable Numa binding.

```
spark.yarn.numa.enabled true 
```
Note: If you are using a customized Spark, there may be conflicts in applying the patch, you may need to manually resolve the conflicts.

#### Use pre-built patched Spark packages 

If you think it is cumbersome to apply patches, we have a pre-built Spark [spark-2.4.4-bin-hadoop2.7-patched.tgz](https://github.com/Intel-bigdata/OAP/releases/download/v0.6.1-spark-2.4.4/spark-2.4.4-bin-hadoop2.7-patched.tgz) with the patch applied.

Commit message:

rebase to master for vmemcache and noevict (#1137)
* rebase to master for vmemcache and noevict

* modify according to comments

* lazy init inputstream with ParquetFileReader (#1136)

Lazy init the input stream of parquet file reader to avoid unnecessary filesystem operation.

* Make DropIndexCommand concurrently execute on Executor side (#1126)

Make DropIndexCommand concurrently execute on Executor side to improve performance

* modify the scheme to allocate dram in HybridMemoryManager

* use pm full flag optimize implement

* Revert "lazy init inputstream with ParquetFileReader (#1136)"

This reverts commit f6d37355c22e0432d6e2b6c1d8bcd6f634f6ba10.

* Revert "Make DropIndexCommand concurrently execute on Executor side (#1126)"

This reverts commit 4b0347034ff5097d4a7189e2be062619782de5a4.

* update doc on use vmemcache and no-evict cache stratege

* update doc

* change the SelfManagedMemoryManager to TmpDramMemoryManager

* update metrics of UI

* update desciption for building non-evicatable cache

* remove unused conf in OAP-User-Guide

* add suggestions to handle failed task due to cache guardian use too much memory

Co-authored-by: Huang Tengfei <tengfei.h@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Li Hao <lihaowhu@gmail.com>

docs/Developer-Guide.md, after:

# OAP Developer Guide

* [OAP Building](#OAP-Building)
* [Integration with Spark](#integration-with-spark)
* [Enable Numa binding for DCPMM in Spark](#enable-numa-binding-for-dcpmm-in-spark)



## OAP Building

#### Building
OAP is built using [Apache Maven](http://maven.apache.org/).

To clone OAP project, use

```
git clone -b branch-0.6-spark-2.4.4  https://github.com/Intel-bigdata/OAP.git
cd OAP
```

To build OAP package, use

```
mvn clean -DskipTests package
```

#### Running Test

To run all the tests, use
```
mvn clean test
```
To run any specific test suite, for example `OapDDLSuite`, use
```
mvn -DwildcardSuites=org.apache.spark.sql.execution.datasources.oap.OapDDLSuite test
```
**NOTE**: Log level of OAP unit tests currently default to ERROR, please override src/test/resources/log4j.properties if needed.


#### OAP Building with DCPMM

If you want to use OAP with DCPMM,  you can follow the below building steps.

##### Prerequisites for building with DCPMM support

You  need to install the required packages on the build system listed below.

- gcc-c++
- [cmake](https://help.directadmin.com/item.php?id=494)
- [Memkind](https://github.com/memkind/memkind)
- [vmemcache](https://github.com/pmem/vmemcache)


##### Building package
You need to add -Ppersistent-memory to the build command line for building with DCPMM support. For Non-evictable cache stratege, you need to build with -Ppersistent-memory also.
```
mvn clean -q -Ppersistent-memory -DskipTests package
```
for vmemcache cache strategy, please build with command:
```
mvn clean -q -Pvmemcache -DskipTests package
```
You can build with command to use all of them:
```
mvn clean -q -Ppersistent-memory -Pvmemcache -DskipTests package
```

## Integration with Spark

Although OAP acts as a plugin jar to Spark, there are still a few tricks to note when integration with Spark. Basically, OAP explored Spark extension & data source API to perform its core functionality. But there are other functionality aspects that cannot achieved by Spark extension and data source API. We made a few improvements or changes to the Spark internals to achieve the functionality. So when integrating OAP on Spark, you need to check whether you are running an unmodified Community Spark or a modified customized Spark.

#### Integrate with Community Spark

If you are running an Community Spark, things will be much simple. Refer to [OAP User Guide](OAP-User-Guide.md) to configure and setup Spark to working with OAP.

#### Integrate with customized Spark

It will be more complicated to integrate OAP with a customized Spark. Steps needed for this case is to check whether the OAP changes of Spark internals will conflict or override with your private changes. 
- If no conflicts or overrides happens, the steps are the same as the steps of unmodified version of Spark described above. 
- If conflicts or overrides happen, you need to have a merge plan of the source code to make sure the code changes you made in a Spark source file appears in the corresponding file included in OAP project. Once merged, you need to rebuild OAP.

The following files need to be checked/compared for changes:

```
•	antlr4/org/apache/spark/sql/catalyst/parser/SqlBase.g4  
		Add index related DDL in this file, such as "create/show/drop oindex". 
•	org/apache/spark/scheduler/DAGScheduler.scala           
		Add the oap cache location to aware task scheduling.
•	org/apache/spark/sql/execution/DataSourceScanExec.scala   
		Add the metrics info to OapMetricsManager and schedule the task to read from the cached hosts.
•	org/apache/spark/sql/execution/datasources/FileFormatWriter.scala
		Return the result of write task to driver.
•	org/apache/spark/sql/execution/datasources/OutputWriter.scala  
		Add new API to support return the result of write task to driver.
•	org/apache/spark/sql/hive/thriftserver/HiveThriftServer2.scala
		Add OapEnv.init() and OapEnv.stop
•	org/apache/spark/sql/hive/thriftserver/SparkSQLCLIDriver.scala
		Add OapEnv.init() and OapEnv.stop in SparkSQLCLIDriver
•	org/apache/spark/status/api/v1/OneApplicationResource.scala    
		Update the metric data to spark web UI.
•	org/apache/spark/SparkEnv.scala
		Add OapRuntime.stop() to stop OapRuntime instance.
•	org/apache/spark/sql/execution/datasources/parquet/VectorizedColumnReader.java
		Change the private access of variable to protected
•	org/apache/spark/sql/execution/datasources/parquet/VectorizedPlainValuesReader.java
		Change the private access of variable to protected
•	org/apache/spark/sql/execution/datasources/parquet/VectorizedRleValuesReader.java
		Change the private access of variable to protected
•	org/apache/spark/sql/execution/vectorized/OnHeapColumnVector.java
		Add the get and set method for the changed protected variable.
```

## Enable Numa binding for DCPMM in Spark

#### Rebuild Spark packages with Numa binding patch 

When using DCPMM as a cache medium, if you want to obtain optimum performance, you need to apply the [Numa](https://www.kernel.org/doc/html/v4.18/vm/numa.html) binding patch [Spark.2.4.4.numa.patch](./Spark.2.4.4.numa.patch) to Spark source code.

1. Download src for [Spark-2.4.4](https://archive.apache.org/dist/spark/spark-2.4.4/spark-2.4.4.tgz) and clone the src from github.

2. Apply this patch and [rebuild](https://spark.apache.org/docs/latest/building-spark.html) Spark package.

```
git apply  Spark.2.4.4.numa.patch
```

3. When deploying OAP to Spark, please add below configuration item to Spark configuration file $SPARK_HOME/conf/spark-defaults.conf to enable Numa binding.

```
spark.yarn.numa.enabled true 
```
Note: If you are using a customized Spark, there may be conflicts in applying the patch, you may need to manually resolve the conflicts.

#### Use pre-built patched Spark packages 

If you think it is cumbersome to apply patches, we have a pre-built Spark [spark-2.4.4-bin-hadoop2.7-patched.tgz](https://github.com/Intel-bigdata/OAP/releases/download/v0.6.1-spark-2.4.4/spark-2.4.4-bin-hadoop2.7-patched.tgz) with the patch applied.
